Configuring providers guide (#10401)
keycloak/keycloak: docs/guides/src/main/server/configuration-provider.adoc

<#import "/templates/guide.adoc" as tmpl>
<#import "/templates/kc.adoc" as kc>
<#import "/templates/options.adoc" as opts>

<@tmpl.guide
title="Configuring providers"
summary="Understand how to configure providers">

The server is built with extensibility in mind and for that it provides a number of Service Provider Interfaces or SPIs, each one
responsible for providing a specific capability to the server. In this guide, you are going to understand the core concepts around
the configuration of SPIs and their respective providers.

After reading this guide, you should be able to use the concepts and the steps herein explained to install, uninstall, enable, disable, and configure
any provider, including those you have implemented to extend the server capabilities in order to better fulfill your requirements.

== Configuration option format

Providers can be configured by using a specific configuration format. The format consists of:

```

> spi-<spi>-<provider-id>-<property>=<value>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
spi-<spi-id>-<provider-id>-<property>=<value>
```

```

> The `<spi>` is the name of the SPI you want to configure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `<spi-id>` is the name of the SPI you want to configure.
```

The `<provider-id>` is the id of the provider you want to configure. This is the id set to the corresponding provider factory implementation.

The `<property>` is the actual name of the property you want to set for a given provider.

All those names (for spi, provider, and property) should be in lower case and if the name is in camel-case such as `myKeycloakProvider`, it should include slashes (`-`) before upper-case letters as follows: `my-keycloak-provider`.

Taking the `HttpClientSpi` SPI as an example, the name of the SPI is `connectionsHttpClient` and one of the provider implementations available is named `default`. In order to set the `connectionPoolSize` property you would use a configuration option as follows:

```
spi-connections-http-client-default-connection-pool-size=10
```

== Setting a provider configuration option

> The configuration options you set to a provider can be provided when starting the server. The values are available to the providers
> when at the init phase of the provider lifecycle.
> 
> If using the CLI, you should be able to set these options as follows:

Reviewer: _The values are available to the providers
when at the init phase of the provider lifecycle_ -- I had to read this a few times to understand what you meant here. I'd leave this out as it's more a concern when writing custom providers, and should rather be mentioned in the extending the server guide than here.

Could probably also simplify this whole section to something like:

```suggestion
Provider configuration options are provided when starting the server, as shown in the following example:
```

.Setting the `connection-pool-size` for the `default` provider of the `connections-http-client` SPI
<@kc.start parameters="--spi-connections-http-client-default-connection-pool-size=10"/>

> == Configuring a default provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configuring the default provider
```
